Add client concepts (#950)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/docs/learn/client-concepts.mdx

**Request parameters:**

```typescript
{
  messages: [
    {
      role: "user",
      content: "Analyze these flight options and recommend the best choice:\n" +
               "[47 flights with prices, times, airlines, and layovers]\n" +
               "User preferences: morning departure, max 1 layover"
    }
  ],
  modelPreferences: {
    hints: [{
      name: "claude-3-5-sonnet"  // Suggested model
    }],
    costPriority: 0.3,      // Less concerned about API cost
    speedPriority: 0.2,     // Can wait for thorough analysis
    intelligencePriority: 0.9  // Need complex trade-off evaluation
  },
  systemPrompt: "You are a travel expert helping users find the best flights based on their preferences",
  maxTokens: 1500
}
```

#### Example: Flight Analysis Tool

Consider a travel booking server with a tool called `findBestFlight` that uses sampling to analyze available flights and recommend the optimal choice. When a user asks "Book me the best flight to Barcelona next month," the tool needs AI assistance to evaluate complex trade-offs.

> The tool queries airline APIs and gathers dozens of flight options. It then requests AI assistance to analyze these options: "Analyze 47 flights to Barcelona considering price, duration, layovers, and departure times. User prefers morning flights with one layover maximum."

Reviewer: For consistency with the JSON above:

```suggestion
The tool queries airline APIs and gathers dozens of flight options. It then requests AI assistance to analyze these options: "Analyze these flight options and recommend the best choice: [...] User preferences: morning departure, max 1 layover."
```

> The client asks the user: "Allow AI to analyze flight options?" Upon approval, the AI evaluates trade-offs—like cheaper red-eye flights versus convenient morning departures. The tool uses this analysis to present the top three recommendations.

Reviewer: How will the client determine the user prompt ("Allow AI to analyze flight options?")?  I'm not aware of a provision in the spec for the server to suggest a user prompt.  I suppose one way would be to use the LLM to summarize the sampling prompt.

Author: sorry, I'm not sure I understand the comment. User selects a prompt in the APP.

Reviewer: In this section, the story is that the server sends a sampling request, and the client displays a very specific confirmation message to the user: "Allow AI to analyze flight options?"

So I was wondering: how is this (very specific) confirmation message derived?

Author: ah, it's host implementation. https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-06-18/client/sampling#user-interaction-model

Maybe the confusing part is " flight options", we can simply say "Allow sampling request"

Reviewer: > Maybe the confusing part is " flight options", we can simply say "Allow sampling request"

Right, that's what I'm saying.  It is a *very specific* confirmation message.

A sophisticated client *might* be able to derive it by using the LLM to analyze the sampling request, but that's just speculation.

#### User Interaction Model

Sampling is designed with human-in-the-loop control as a fundamental principle. Users maintain oversight through several mechanisms:

**Approval controls**: Every sampling request needs explicit user consent. Clients show what the server wants to analyze and why. Users can approve, deny, or modify requests.

**Transparency features**: Clients display the exact prompt, model selection, and token limits. Users review AI responses before they return to the server.

> **Configuration options**: Users can set model preferences, configure auto-approval for trusted operations, or require approval for everything. Clients may provide options to redact sensitive information.

Reviewer: It might also be worth talking about security / isolation here.  My understanding is that sampling requests should be evaluated in an isolated context.

Reviewer 2: _Actually_ (sorry) the server can use `includeContext` to say how much context it wants shoveled into the sampling request by the host app (which request of course can be denied). Worth a mention here, though not the gory details - maybe something like "Users decide how much conversation context may be included in the sampling request."

## Core Client Features

Clients may provide several key features that enhance server capabilities:

### Sampling

Sampling allows servers to request language model completions through the client, enabling agentic behaviors while maintaining security and user control.

#### Overview

Sampling is a standardized mechanism that enables servers to implement complex behaviors by requesting AI model interactions through the client. Rather than servers needing their own API keys or model integrations, they can request completions in a controlled manner. The client handles model selection based on the server's preferences (cost, speed, or intelligence priorities), manages user approval flows, and ensures security boundaries. This nested capability means sampling requests occur within the context of other operations—like a tool analyzing data or a resource being processed—always with human oversight.

**Sampling flow:**

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Server
    participant Client
    participant User
    participant LLM

    Note over Server,Client: Server initiates sampling
    Server->>Client: sampling/createMessage

>     Note over Client,User: Human-in-the-loop review

Author: this is from our spec, need to re-do it everywhere. I'll do is in a separate PR
